doc_source/spot-bid-status.md, before:

# Spot Request Status<a name="spot-bid-status"></a>

To help you track your Spot Instance requests and plan your use of Spot Instances, use the request status provided by Amazon EC2\. For example, the request status can provide the reason why your Spot request isn't fulfilled yet, or list the constraints that are preventing the fulfillment of your Spot request\.

At each step of the process—also called the Spot request *lifecycle*, specific events determine successive request states\.

**Topics**
+ [Life Cycle of a Spot Request](#spot-instances-bid-status-lifecycle)
+ [Getting Request Status Information](#get-spot-instance-bid-status)
+ [Spot Request Status Codes](#spot-instance-bid-status-understand)

## Life Cycle of a Spot Request<a name="spot-instances-bid-status-lifecycle"></a>

The following diagram shows you the paths that your Spot request can follow throughout its lifecycle, from submission to termination\. Each step is depicted as a node, and the status code for each node describes the status of the Spot request and Spot Instance\.

![\[Life cycle of a Spot request\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/images/spot-bid-status-diagram.png)

**Pending evaluation**  
As soon as you make a Spot Instance request, it goes into the `pending-evaluation` state unless one or more request parameters are not valid \(`bad-parameters`\)\.


| Status Code | Request State | Instance State | 
| --- | --- | --- | 
|  `pending-evaluation`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 
|  `bad-parameters`  |  `closed`  |  n/a  | 

**Holding**  
If one or more request constraints are valid but can't be met yet, or if there is not enough capacity, the request goes into a holding state waiting for the constraints to be met\. The request options affect the likelihood of the request being fulfilled\. For example, if you specify a maximum price below the current Spot price, your request stays in a holding state until the Spot price goes below your maximum price\. If you specify an Availability Zone group, the request stays in a holding state until the Availability Zone constraint is met\.


| Status Code | Request State | Instance State | 
| --- | --- | --- | 
|  `capacity-not-available`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 
|  `capacity-oversubscribed`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 
|  `price-too-low`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 
|  `not-scheduled-yet`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 
|  `launch-group-constraint`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 
|  `az-group-constraint`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 
|  `placement-group-constraint`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 
|  `constraint-not-fulfillable`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 

**Pending evaluation/fulfillment\-terminal**  
Your Spot Instance request can go to a `terminal` state if you create a request that is valid only during a specific time period and this time period expires before your request reaches the pending fulfillment phase\. It might also happen if you cancel the request, or if a system error occurs\.


| Status Code | Request State | Instance State | 
| --- | --- | --- | 
|  `schedule-expired`  |  `cancelled`  |  n/a  | 
|  `canceled-before-fulfillment`\*  |  `cancelled`  |  n/a  | 
|  `bad-parameters`  |  `failed`  |  n/a  | 
|  `system-error`  |  `closed`  |  n/a  | 

\* If you cancel the request\.

**Pending fulfillment**  
When the constraints you specified \(if any\) are met and your maximum price is equal to or higher than the current Spot price, your Spot request goes into the `pending-fulfillment` state\.

At this point, Amazon EC2 is getting ready to provision the instances that you requested\. If the process stops at this point, it is likely to be because it was cancelled by the user before a Spot Instance was launched\. It may also be because an unexpected system error occurred\.


| Status Code | Request State | Instance State | 
| --- | --- | --- | 
|  `pending-fulfillment`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 

**Fulfilled**  
When all the specifications for your Spot Instances are met, your Spot request is fulfilled\. Amazon EC2 launches the Spot Instances, which can take a few minutes\. If a Spot Instance is hibernated or stopped when interrupted, it remains in this state until the request can be fulfilled again or the request is cancelled\.


| Status Code | Request State | Instance State | 
| --- | --- | --- | 
|  `fulfilled`  |  `active`  |  `pending` → `running`  | 
|  `fulfilled`  |  `active`  |  `stopped` → `running`  | 

**Fulfilled\-terminal**  
Your Spot Instances continue to run as long as your maximum price is at or above the Spot price, there is available capacity for your instance type, and you don't terminate the instance\. If a change in the Spot price or available capacity requires Amazon EC2 to terminate your Spot Instances, the Spot request goes into a terminal state\. For example, if your price equals the Spot price but Spot Instances are not available, the status code is `instance-terminated-capacity-oversubscribed`\. A request also goes into the terminal state if you cancel the Spot request or terminate the Spot Instances\.


| Status Code | Request State | Instance State | 
| --- | --- | --- | 
|  `request-canceled-and-instance-running`  |  `cancelled`  |  `running`  | 
|  `marked-for-stop`  |  `active`  |  `running`  | 
|  `marked-for-termination`  |  `closed`  |  `running`  | 
|  `instance-stopped-by-price`  |  `disabled`  |  `stopped`  | 
|  `instance-stopped-by-user`  |  `disabled`  |  `stopped`  | 
|  `instance-stopped-capacity-oversubscribed`  |  `disabled`  |  `stopped`  | 
|  `instance-stopped-no-capacity`  |  `disabled`  |  `stopped`  | 
|  `instance-terminated-by-price`  |  `closed` \(one\-time\), `open` \(persistent\)  |  `terminated`  | 
|  `instance-terminated-by-schedule`  |  `closed`  |  `terminated`  | 
|  `instance-terminated-by-service`  |  `cancelled`  |  `terminated`  | 
|  `instance-terminated-by-user` †  |  `closed` or `cancelled` \*  |  `terminated`  | 
|  `instance-terminated-no-capacity`  |  `closed` \(one\-time\), `open` \(persistent\)  |  `terminated`  | 
|  `instance-terminated-capacity-oversubscribed`  |  `closed` \(one\-time\), `open` \(persistent\)  |  `terminated`  | 
|  `instance-terminated-launch-group-constraint`  |  `closed` \(one\-time\), `open` \(persistent\)  |  `terminated`  | 

† A Spot Instance can only get to this state if a user runs the shutdown command from the instance\. We do not recommend that you do this, as the Spot service might restart the instance\.

\* The request state is `closed` if you terminate the instance but do not cancel the request\. The request state is `cancelled` if you terminate the instance and cancel the request\. Even if you terminate a Spot Instance before you cancel its request, there might be a delay before Amazon EC2 detects that your Spot Instance was terminated\. In this case, the request state can either be `closed` or `cancelled`\.

**Persistent requests**  
When your Spot Instances are terminated \(either by you or Amazon EC2\), if the Spot request is a persistent request, it returns to the `pending-evaluation` state and then Amazon EC2 can launch a new Spot Instance when the constraints are met\.

## Getting Request Status Information<a name="get-spot-instance-bid-status"></a>

You can get request status information using the AWS Management Console or a command line tool\.

**To get request status information \(console\)**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Spot Requests** and select the Spot request\.

1. To check the status, choose **Description**, **Status**\.

**To get request status information using the command line**

You can use one of the following commands\. For more information about these command line interfaces, see [Accessing Amazon EC2](concepts.md#access-ec2)\.
+ [describe\-spot\-instance\-requests](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/describe-spot-instance-requests.html) \(AWS CLI\)
+ [Get\-EC2SpotInstanceRequest](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/powershell/latest/reference/items/Get-EC2SpotInstanceRequest.html) \(AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell\)

## Spot Request Status Codes<a name="spot-instance-bid-status-understand"></a>

Spot request status information is composed of a status code, the update time, and a status message\. Together, these help you determine the disposition of your Spot request\.

The following are the Spot request status codes:

`az-group-constraint`  
Amazon EC2 cannot launch all the instances you requested in the same Availability Zone\.

`bad-parameters`  
One or more parameters for your Spot request are not valid \(for example, the AMI you specified does not exist\)\. The status message indicates which parameter is not valid\.

`cancelled-before-fulfillment`  
The user cancelled the Spot request before it was fulfilled\.

`capacity-not-available`  
There is not enough capacity available for the instances that you requested\.

`capacity-oversubscribed`  
There is not enough capacity available for the instances that you requested\.

`constraint-not-fulfillable`  
The Spot request can't be fulfilled because one or more constraints are not valid \(for example, the Availability Zone does not exist\)\. The status message indicates which constraint is not valid\.

`fulfilled`  
The Spot request is `active`, and Amazon EC2 is launching your Spot Instances\.

`instance-stopped-by-price`  
Your instance was stopped because the Spot price exceeded your maximum price\.

`instance-stopped-by-user`  
Your instance was stopped because a user ran shutdown \-h from the instance\.

`instance-stopped-capacity-oversubscribed`  
Your instance was stopped because the number of Spot requests with maximum prices equal to or higher than the Spot price exceeded the available capacity in this Spot Instance pool\. The Spot price might not have changed\.

`instance-stopped-no-capacity`  
Your instance was stopped because there was no longer enough Spot capacity available for the instance\.

`instance-terminated-by-price`  
Your instance was terminated because the Spot price exceeded your maximum price\. If your request is persistent, the process restarts, so your request is pending evaluation\.

`instance-terminated-by-schedule`  
Your Spot Instance was terminated at the end of its scheduled duration\.

`instance-terminated-by-service`  
Your instance was terminated from a stopped state\.

`instance-terminated-by-user` or `spot-instance-terminated-by-user`  
You terminated a Spot Instance that had been fulfilled, so the request state is `closed` \(unless it's a persistent request\) and the instance state is `terminated`\.

 `instance-terminated-capacity-oversubscribed`   
Your instance was terminated because the number of Spot requests with maximum prices equal to or higher than the Spot price exceeded the available capacity in this Spot Instance pool\. The Spot price might not have changed\.

`instance-terminated-launch-group-constraint`  
One or more of the instances in your launch group was terminated, so the launch group constraint is no longer fulfilled\.

`instance-terminated-no-capacity`  
Your instance was terminated because there is no longer enough Spot capacity available for the instance\.

`launch-group-constraint`  
Amazon EC2 cannot launch all the instances that you requested at the same time\. All instances in a launch group are started and terminated together\.

`limit-exceeded`  
The limit on the number of EBS volumes or total volume storage was exceeded\. For more information about these limits and how to request an increase, see [Amazon EBS Limits](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws_service_limits.html#limits_ebs) in the *Amazon Web Services General Reference*\.

`marked-for-stop`  
The Spot Instance is marked for stopping\.

`marked-for-termination`  
The Spot Instance is marked for termination\.

`not-scheduled-yet`  
The Spot request is not evaluated until the scheduled date\.

`pending-evaluation`  
After you make a Spot Instance request, it goes into the `pending-evaluation` state while the system evaluates the parameters of your request\.

`pending-fulfillment`  
Amazon EC2 is trying to provision your Spot Instances\.

`placement-group-constraint`  
The Spot request can't be fulfilled yet because a Spot Instance can't be added to the placement group at this time\.

`price-too-low`  
The request can't be fulfilled yet because your maximum price is below the Spot price\. In this case, no instance is launched and your request remains `open`\.

`request-canceled-and-instance-running`  
You canceled the Spot request while the Spot Instances are still running\. The request is `cancelled`, but the instances remain `running`\.

`schedule-expired`  
The Spot request expired because it was not fulfilled before the specified date\.

`system-error`  
There was an unexpected system error\. If this is a recurring issue, please contact AWS Support for assistance\.

Commit message:

Add info on how an outage in one of the AZs can affect overall Spot capacity in the region
Hi Team,

I would like to propose to add more information on how an outage in one of the AZs in an AWS region can affect the availability of the Spot capacity of the other AZs. Basically, the idea is that if there is an outage in one of the AZs, then there would be a surge of Spot requests to the other running AZs, to fill the gap, which can then affect the overall Spot capacity of the entire region. 

Honestly, I am not quite sure if this is the correct behavior but I received some information that there are some official AWS training classes, like the Exam Readiness: AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Professional course, which describes the above scenario. Reference: https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2018/06/exam-readiness-courses/

I checked the official AWS FAQ and EC2 Troubleshooting guide but I haven't seen any information about this. The main purpose of this is to have ample information for those companies that have a production environment which completely uses auto-scaled Spot Instances deployed to multiple AZs. I have been working with a lot of cloud-based companies here in Sydney and I see that some of them have this kind of architecture. The justification of my fellow architects is that the outage of an AZ is isolated to another AZ, which is why the Spot capacity should not be affected. But of course, there is also a certain logic that the Spot Requests can be redirected to another AZs.

Thank you in advance for your help in clarifying this issue. Looking forward to your reply.

Cheers,
Jon Bonso

doc_source/spot-bid-status.md, after:

# Spot Request Status<a name="spot-bid-status"></a>

To help you track your Spot Instance requests and plan your use of Spot Instances, use the request status provided by Amazon EC2\. For example, the request status can provide the reason why your Spot request isn't fulfilled yet, or list the constraints that are preventing the fulfillment of your Spot request\.

At each step of the process—also called the Spot request *lifecycle*, specific events determine successive request states\.

**Topics**
+ [Life Cycle of a Spot Request](#spot-instances-bid-status-lifecycle)
+ [Getting Request Status Information](#get-spot-instance-bid-status)
+ [Spot Request Status Codes](#spot-instance-bid-status-understand)

## Life Cycle of a Spot Request<a name="spot-instances-bid-status-lifecycle"></a>

The following diagram shows you the paths that your Spot request can follow throughout its lifecycle, from submission to termination\. Each step is depicted as a node, and the status code for each node describes the status of the Spot request and Spot Instance\.

![\[Life cycle of a Spot request\]](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/images/spot-bid-status-diagram.png)

**Pending evaluation**  
As soon as you make a Spot Instance request, it goes into the `pending-evaluation` state unless one or more request parameters are not valid \(`bad-parameters`\)\.


| Status Code | Request State | Instance State | 
| --- | --- | --- | 
|  `pending-evaluation`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 
|  `bad-parameters`  |  `closed`  |  n/a  | 

**Holding**  
If one or more request constraints are valid but can't be met yet, or if there is not enough capacity, the request goes into a holding state waiting for the constraints to be met\. The request options affect the likelihood of the request being fulfilled\. For example, if you specify a maximum price below the current Spot price, your request stays in a holding state until the Spot price goes below your maximum price\. If you specify an Availability Zone group, the request stays in a holding state until the Availability Zone constraint is met\.

In the event of an outage of one of the Availability Zones, there is a chance that the capacity for Spot instances in other Availability Zones can be affected\.


| Status Code | Request State | Instance State | 
| --- | --- | --- | 
|  `capacity-not-available`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 
|  `capacity-oversubscribed`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 
|  `price-too-low`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 
|  `not-scheduled-yet`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 
|  `launch-group-constraint`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 
|  `az-group-constraint`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 
|  `placement-group-constraint`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 
|  `constraint-not-fulfillable`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 

**Pending evaluation/fulfillment\-terminal**  
Your Spot Instance request can go to a `terminal` state if you create a request that is valid only during a specific time period and this time period expires before your request reaches the pending fulfillment phase\. It might also happen if you cancel the request, or if a system error occurs\.


| Status Code | Request State | Instance State | 
| --- | --- | --- | 
|  `schedule-expired`  |  `cancelled`  |  n/a  | 
|  `canceled-before-fulfillment`\*  |  `cancelled`  |  n/a  | 
|  `bad-parameters`  |  `failed`  |  n/a  | 
|  `system-error`  |  `closed`  |  n/a  | 

\* If you cancel the request\.

**Pending fulfillment**  
When the constraints you specified \(if any\) are met and your maximum price is equal to or higher than the current Spot price, your Spot request goes into the `pending-fulfillment` state\.

At this point, Amazon EC2 is getting ready to provision the instances that you requested\. If the process stops at this point, it is likely to be because it was cancelled by the user before a Spot Instance was launched\. It may also be because an unexpected system error occurred\.


| Status Code | Request State | Instance State | 
| --- | --- | --- | 
|  `pending-fulfillment`  |  `open`  |  n/a  | 

**Fulfilled**  
When all the specifications for your Spot Instances are met, your Spot request is fulfilled\. Amazon EC2 launches the Spot Instances, which can take a few minutes\. If a Spot Instance is hibernated or stopped when interrupted, it remains in this state until the request can be fulfilled again or the request is cancelled\.


| Status Code | Request State | Instance State | 
| --- | --- | --- | 
|  `fulfilled`  |  `active`  |  `pending` → `running`  | 
|  `fulfilled`  |  `active`  |  `stopped` → `running`  | 

**Fulfilled\-terminal**  
Your Spot Instances continue to run as long as your maximum price is at or above the Spot price, there is available capacity for your instance type, and you don't terminate the instance\. If a change in the Spot price or available capacity requires Amazon EC2 to terminate your Spot Instances, the Spot request goes into a terminal state\. For example, if your price equals the Spot price but Spot Instances are not available, the status code is `instance-terminated-capacity-oversubscribed`\. A request also goes into the terminal state if you cancel the Spot request or terminate the Spot Instances\.


| Status Code | Request State | Instance State | 
| --- | --- | --- | 
|  `request-canceled-and-instance-running`  |  `cancelled`  |  `running`  | 
|  `marked-for-stop`  |  `active`  |  `running`  | 
|  `marked-for-termination`  |  `closed`  |  `running`  | 
|  `instance-stopped-by-price`  |  `disabled`  |  `stopped`  | 
|  `instance-stopped-by-user`  |  `disabled`  |  `stopped`  | 
|  `instance-stopped-capacity-oversubscribed`  |  `disabled`  |  `stopped`  | 
|  `instance-stopped-no-capacity`  |  `disabled`  |  `stopped`  | 
|  `instance-terminated-by-price`  |  `closed` \(one\-time\), `open` \(persistent\)  |  `terminated`  | 
|  `instance-terminated-by-schedule`  |  `closed`  |  `terminated`  | 
|  `instance-terminated-by-service`  |  `cancelled`  |  `terminated`  | 
|  `instance-terminated-by-user` †  |  `closed` or `cancelled` \*  |  `terminated`  | 
|  `instance-terminated-no-capacity`  |  `closed` \(one\-time\), `open` \(persistent\)  |  `terminated`  | 
|  `instance-terminated-capacity-oversubscribed`  |  `closed` \(one\-time\), `open` \(persistent\)  |  `terminated`  | 
|  `instance-terminated-launch-group-constraint`  |  `closed` \(one\-time\), `open` \(persistent\)  |  `terminated`  | 

† A Spot Instance can only get to this state if a user runs the shutdown command from the instance\. We do not recommend that you do this, as the Spot service might restart the instance\.

\* The request state is `closed` if you terminate the instance but do not cancel the request\. The request state is `cancelled` if you terminate the instance and cancel the request\. Even if you terminate a Spot Instance before you cancel its request, there might be a delay before Amazon EC2 detects that your Spot Instance was terminated\. In this case, the request state can either be `closed` or `cancelled`\.

**Persistent requests**  
When your Spot Instances are terminated \(either by you or Amazon EC2\), if the Spot request is a persistent request, it returns to the `pending-evaluation` state and then Amazon EC2 can launch a new Spot Instance when the constraints are met\.

## Getting Request Status Information<a name="get-spot-instance-bid-status"></a>

You can get request status information using the AWS Management Console or a command line tool\.

**To get request status information \(console\)**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Spot Requests** and select the Spot request\.

1. To check the status, choose **Description**, **Status**\.

**To get request status information using the command line**

You can use one of the following commands\. For more information about these command line interfaces, see [Accessing Amazon EC2](concepts.md#access-ec2)\.
+ [describe\-spot\-instance\-requests](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/describe-spot-instance-requests.html) \(AWS CLI\)
+ [Get\-EC2SpotInstanceRequest](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/powershell/latest/reference/items/Get-EC2SpotInstanceRequest.html) \(AWS Tools for Windows PowerShell\)

## Spot Request Status Codes<a name="spot-instance-bid-status-understand"></a>

Spot request status information is composed of a status code, the update time, and a status message\. Together, these help you determine the disposition of your Spot request\.

The following are the Spot request status codes:

`az-group-constraint`  
Amazon EC2 cannot launch all the instances you requested in the same Availability Zone\.

`bad-parameters`  
One or more parameters for your Spot request are not valid \(for example, the AMI you specified does not exist\)\. The status message indicates which parameter is not valid\.

`cancelled-before-fulfillment`  
The user cancelled the Spot request before it was fulfilled\.

`capacity-not-available`  
There is not enough capacity available for the instances that you requested\.

`capacity-oversubscribed`  
There is not enough capacity available for the instances that you requested\.

`constraint-not-fulfillable`  
The Spot request can't be fulfilled because one or more constraints are not valid \(for example, the Availability Zone does not exist\)\. The status message indicates which constraint is not valid\.

`fulfilled`  
The Spot request is `active`, and Amazon EC2 is launching your Spot Instances\.

`instance-stopped-by-price`  
Your instance was stopped because the Spot price exceeded your maximum price\.

`instance-stopped-by-user`  
Your instance was stopped because a user ran shutdown \-h from the instance\.

`instance-stopped-capacity-oversubscribed`  
Your instance was stopped because the number of Spot requests with maximum prices equal to or higher than the Spot price exceeded the available capacity in this Spot Instance pool\. The Spot price might not have changed\.

`instance-stopped-no-capacity`  
Your instance was stopped because there was no longer enough Spot capacity available for the instance\.

`instance-terminated-by-price`  
Your instance was terminated because the Spot price exceeded your maximum price\. If your request is persistent, the process restarts, so your request is pending evaluation\.

`instance-terminated-by-schedule`  
Your Spot Instance was terminated at the end of its scheduled duration\.

`instance-terminated-by-service`  
Your instance was terminated from a stopped state\.

`instance-terminated-by-user` or `spot-instance-terminated-by-user`  
You terminated a Spot Instance that had been fulfilled, so the request state is `closed` \(unless it's a persistent request\) and the instance state is `terminated`\.

 `instance-terminated-capacity-oversubscribed`   
Your instance was terminated because the number of Spot requests with maximum prices equal to or higher than the Spot price exceeded the available capacity in this Spot Instance pool\. The Spot price might not have changed\.

`instance-terminated-launch-group-constraint`  
One or more of the instances in your launch group was terminated, so the launch group constraint is no longer fulfilled\.

`instance-terminated-no-capacity`  
Your instance was terminated because there is no longer enough Spot capacity available for the instance\.

`launch-group-constraint`  
Amazon EC2 cannot launch all the instances that you requested at the same time\. All instances in a launch group are started and terminated together\.

`limit-exceeded`  
The limit on the number of EBS volumes or total volume storage was exceeded\. For more information about these limits and how to request an increase, see [Amazon EBS Limits](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws_service_limits.html#limits_ebs) in the *Amazon Web Services General Reference*\.

`marked-for-stop`  
The Spot Instance is marked for stopping\.

`marked-for-termination`  
The Spot Instance is marked for termination\.

`not-scheduled-yet`  
The Spot request is not evaluated until the scheduled date\.

`pending-evaluation`  
After you make a Spot Instance request, it goes into the `pending-evaluation` state while the system evaluates the parameters of your request\.

`pending-fulfillment`  
Amazon EC2 is trying to provision your Spot Instances\.

`placement-group-constraint`  
The Spot request can't be fulfilled yet because a Spot Instance can't be added to the placement group at this time\.

`price-too-low`  
The request can't be fulfilled yet because your maximum price is below the Spot price\. In this case, no instance is launched and your request remains `open`\.

`request-canceled-and-instance-running`  
You canceled the Spot request while the Spot Instances are still running\. The request is `cancelled`, but the instances remain `running`\.

`schedule-expired`  
The Spot request expired because it was not fulfilled before the specified date\.

`system-error`  
There was an unexpected system error\. If this is a recurring issue, please contact AWS Support for assistance\.
