doc_source/spot-fleet-scheduled-scaling.md, before:

# Scale Spot Fleet using scheduled scaling<a name="spot-fleet-scheduled-scaling"></a>

Scaling based on a schedule enables you to scale your application in response to predictable changes in demand\. To use scheduled scaling, you create *scheduled actions*, which tell Spot Fleet to perform scaling activities at specific times\. When you create a scheduled action, you specify the Spot Fleet, when the scaling activity should occur, minimum capacity, and maximum capacity\. You can create scheduled actions that scale one time only or that scale on a recurring schedule\.

**Limits**
+ The Spot Fleet request must have a request type of `maintain`\. Automatic scaling is not supported for one\-time requests or Spot blocks\.

**To create a one\-time scheduled action**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Spot Requests**\.

1. Select your Spot Fleet request and choose **Scheduled Scaling**\.

1. Choose **Create Scheduled Action**\.

1. For **Name**, specify a name for the scheduled action\.

1. Enter a value for **Minimum capacity**, **Maximum capacity**, or both\.

1. For **Recurrence**, choose **Once**\.

1. \(Optional\) Choose a date and time for **Start time**, **End time**, or both\.

1. Choose **Submit**\.

**To scale on a recurring schedule**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Spot Requests**\.

1. Select your Spot Fleet request and choose **Scheduled Scaling**\.

1. For **Recurrence**, choose one of the predefined schedules \(for example, **Every day**\), or choose **Custom** and enter a cron expression\. For more information about the cron expressions supported by scheduled scaling, see [Cron Expressions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/events/ScheduledEvents.html#CronExpressions) in the *Amazon CloudWatch Events User Guide*\.

1. \(Optional\) Choose a date and time for **Start time**, **End time**, or both\.

1. Choose **Submit**\.

**To edit a scheduled action**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Spot Requests**\.

1. Select your Spot Fleet request and choose **Scheduled Scaling**\.

1. Select the scheduled action and choose **Actions**, **Edit**\.

1. Make the needed changes and choose **Submit**\.

**To delete a scheduled action**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Spot Requests**\.

1. Select your Spot Fleet request and choose **Scheduled Scaling**\.

1. Select the scheduled action and choose **Actions**, **Delete**\.

1. When prompted for confirmation, choose **Delete**\.

**To manage scheduled scaling using the AWS CLI**

Use the following commands:
+ [put\-scheduled\-action](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/application-autoscaling/put-scheduled-action.html)
+ [describe\-scheduled\-actions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/application-autoscaling/describe-scheduled-actions.html)
+ [delete\-scheduled\-action](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/application-autoscaling/delete-scheduled-action.html)

Commit message:

Include disclaimer about cron expression syntax
Added a disclaimer about the modified syntax of the cron expression used in Spot Requests when compared to the linked documentation for cron schedules in Amazon CloudWatch.
The CloudWatch documentation states that the cron scheduling only goes to the granularity of *minutes*, while Spot Requests cron expressions support granularity to the *second*. This can cause errors for users when they attempt to schedule scaling actions via cron expressions, as a cron expression correctly formatted to the CloudWatch documentation linked here will fail on the validation in the Spot Request as the fields will all be off by one (e.g. the user has the Day of Week data Mon-Fri in what is the Month field for Spot Requests, and has the year field absent).

doc_source/spot-fleet-scheduled-scaling.md, after:

# Scale Spot Fleet using scheduled scaling<a name="spot-fleet-scheduled-scaling"></a>

Scaling based on a schedule enables you to scale your application in response to predictable changes in demand\. To use scheduled scaling, you create *scheduled actions*, which tell Spot Fleet to perform scaling activities at specific times\. When you create a scheduled action, you specify the Spot Fleet, when the scaling activity should occur, minimum capacity, and maximum capacity\. You can create scheduled actions that scale one time only or that scale on a recurring schedule\.

**Limits**
+ The Spot Fleet request must have a request type of `maintain`\. Automatic scaling is not supported for one\-time requests or Spot blocks\.

**To create a one\-time scheduled action**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Spot Requests**\.

1. Select your Spot Fleet request and choose **Scheduled Scaling**\.

1. Choose **Create Scheduled Action**\.

1. For **Name**, specify a name for the scheduled action\.

1. Enter a value for **Minimum capacity**, **Maximum capacity**, or both\.

1. For **Recurrence**, choose **Once**\.

1. \(Optional\) Choose a date and time for **Start time**, **End time**, or both\.

1. Choose **Submit**\.

**To scale on a recurring schedule**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Spot Requests**\.

1. Select your Spot Fleet request and choose **Scheduled Scaling**\.

1. For **Recurrence**, choose one of the predefined schedules \(for example, **Every day**\), or choose **Custom** and enter a cron expression\. For more information about the cron expressions supported by scheduled scaling, see [Cron Expressions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/events/ScheduledEvents.html#CronExpressions) in the *Amazon CloudWatch Events User Guide*\.
Note that Spot Requests cron expressions include an extra field for a **seconds** value compared to the documentation for Amazon CloudWatch. The seconds field is the first in the entry, producing a modified structure like this: `Seconds | Minutes	| Hours	| Day of month	| Month	| Day of week	| Year`

1. \(Optional\) Choose a date and time for **Start time**, **End time**, or both\.

1. Choose **Submit**\.

**To edit a scheduled action**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Spot Requests**\.

1. Select your Spot Fleet request and choose **Scheduled Scaling**\.

1. Select the scheduled action and choose **Actions**, **Edit**\.

1. Make the needed changes and choose **Submit**\.

**To delete a scheduled action**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Spot Requests**\.

1. Select your Spot Fleet request and choose **Scheduled Scaling**\.

1. Select the scheduled action and choose **Actions**, **Delete**\.

1. When prompted for confirmation, choose **Delete**\.

**To manage scheduled scaling using the AWS CLI**

Use the following commands:
+ [put\-scheduled\-action](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/application-autoscaling/put-scheduled-action.html)
+ [describe\-scheduled\-actions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/application-autoscaling/describe-scheduled-actions.html)
+ [delete\-scheduled\-action](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/application-autoscaling/delete-scheduled-action.html)
