doc_source/TroubleshootingInstancesStopping.md, before:

# Troubleshoot stopping your instance<a name="TroubleshootingInstancesStopping"></a>

If you have stopped your Amazon EBS\-backed instance and it appears stuck in the `stopping` state, there may be an issue with the underlying host computer\.

There is no cost for instance usage while an instance is in the `stopping` state or in any other state except `running`\. You are only charged for instance usage when an instance is in the `running` state\.

## Force stop the instance<a name="force-stop-instance"></a>

Force the instance to stop using either the console or the AWS CLI\.

------
#### [ New console ]

**To force stop the instance using the console**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Instances** and select the stuck instance\.

1. Choose **Instance state**, **Force stop instance**, **Stop**\.

------
#### [ Old console ]

**To force stop the instance using the console**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Instances** and select the stuck instance\.

1. Choose **Instance State**, **Stop**, **Yes, Forcefully Stop**\.

------
#### [ AWS CLI ]

**To force stop the instance using the AWS CLI**  
Use the [stop\-instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/stop-instances.html) command and the `--force` option as follows:

```
aws ec2 stop-instances --instance-ids i-0123ab456c789d01e --force
```

------

If, after 10 minutes, the instance has not stopped, post a request for help in the [Amazon EC2 forum](https://forums.aws.amazon.com/forum.jspa?forumID=30)\. To help expedite a resolution, include the instance ID, and describe the steps that you've already taken\. Alternatively, if you have a support plan, create a technical support case in the [Support Center](https://console.aws.amazon.com/support/home#/)\.

## Create a replacement instance<a name="Creating_Replacement_Instance"></a>

To attempt to resolve the problem while you are waiting for assistance from the [Amazon EC2 forum](https://forums.aws.amazon.com/forum.jspa?forumID=30) or the [Support Center](https://console.aws.amazon.com/support/home#/), create a replacement instance\. Create an AMI of the stuck instance, and launch a new instance using the new AMI\. 

------
#### [ New console ]

**To create a replacement instance using the console**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Instances** and select the stuck instance\.

1. Choose **Actions**, **Image and templates**, **Create image**\.

1. On the **Create image** page, do the following:

   1. Enter a name and description for the AMI\.

   1. Choose **No reboot**\.

   1. Choose **Create image**\.

   For more information, see [Create a Linux AMI from an instance](creating-an-ami-ebs.md#how-to-create-ebs-ami)\.

1. Launch a new instance from the AMI and verify that the new instance is working\.

1. Select the stuck instance, and choose **Actions**, **Instance state**, **Terminate instance**\. If the instance also gets stuck terminating, Amazon EC2 automatically forces it to terminate within a few hours\.

------
#### [ Old console ]

**To create a replacement instance using the console**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Instances** and select the stuck instance\.

1. Choose **Actions**, **Image**, **Create Image**\.

1. In the **Create Image** dialog box, fill in the following fields, and then choose **Create Image**:

   1. Specify a name and description for the AMI\.

   1. Choose **No reboot**\.

   For more information, see [Create a Linux AMI from an instance](creating-an-ami-ebs.md#how-to-create-ebs-ami)\.

1. Launch a new instance from the AMI and verify that the new instance is working\.

1. Select the stuck instance, and choose **Actions**, **Instance State**, **Terminate**\. If the instance also gets stuck terminating, Amazon EC2 automatically forces it to terminate within a few hours\.

------
#### [ AWS CLI ]

**To create a replacement instance using the CLI**

1. Create an AMI from the stuck instance using the [create\-image](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/create-image.html) \(AWS CLI\) command and the `--no-reboot` option as follows:\.

   ```
   aws ec2 create-image --instance-id i-0123ab456c789d01e --name "AMI" --description "AMI for replacement instance" --no-reboot
   ```

1. Launch a new instance from the AMI using the [run\-instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/run-instances.html) \(AWS CLI\) command as follows:

   ```
   aws ec2 run-instances --image-id ami-1a2b3c4d --count 1 --instance-type c3.large --key-name MyKeyPair --security-groups MySecurityGroup
   ```

1. Verify that the new instance is working\.

1. Terminate the stuck instance using the [terminate\-instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/terminate-instances.html) \(AWS CLI\) command as follows:

   ```
   aws ec2 terminate-instances --instance-ids i-1234567890abcdef0
   ```

------

If you are unable to create an AMI from the instance as described in the previous procedure, you can set up a replacement instance as follows:

**\(Alternate\) To create a replacement instance using the console**

1. Select the instance and choose **Description**, **Block devices**\. Select each volume and make note of its volume ID\. Be sure to note which volume is the root volume\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Volumes**\. Select each volume for the instance, and choose **Actions**, **Create Snapshot**\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Snapshots**\. Select the snapshot that you just created, and choose **Actions**, **Create Volume**\.

1. Launch an instance with the same operating system as the stuck instance\. Note the volume ID and device name of its root volume\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Instances**, select the instance that you just launched, and choose **Instance state**, **Stop instance**\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Volumes**, select the root volume of the stopped instance, and choose **Actions**, **Detach Volume**\.

1. Select the root volume that you created from the stuck instance, choose **Actions**, **Attach Volume**, and attach it to the new instance as its root volume \(using the device name that you made note of\)\. Attach any additional non\-root volumes to the instance\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Instances** and select the replacement instance\. Choose **Instance state**, **Start instance**\. Verify that the instance is working\.

1. Select the stuck instance, choose **Instance state**, **Terminate instance**\. If the instance also gets stuck terminating, Amazon EC2 automatically forces it to terminate within a few hours\.

Commit message:

Some instance types take longer to stop
It is expected that some instance families will take longer to transition into stopped/terminated state. This should be mentioned explicitly.

doc_source/TroubleshootingInstancesStopping.md, after:

# Troubleshoot stopping your instance<a name="TroubleshootingInstancesStopping"></a>

If you have stopped your Amazon EBS\-backed instance and it appears stuck in the `stopping` state, there may be an issue with the underlying host computer\.

It is expected that some instance types will take longer to transition into `stopped` state. For example, GPU-enabled families like P3, will typically take around 10 minutes to complete the process.

There is no cost for instance usage while an instance is in the `stopping` state or in any other state except `running`\. You are only charged for instance usage when an instance is in the `running` state\.

## Force stop the instance<a name="force-stop-instance"></a>

Force the instance to stop using either the console or the AWS CLI\.

------
#### [ New console ]

**To force stop the instance using the console**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Instances** and select the stuck instance\.

1. Choose **Instance state**, **Force stop instance**, **Stop**\.

------
#### [ Old console ]

**To force stop the instance using the console**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Instances** and select the stuck instance\.

1. Choose **Instance State**, **Stop**, **Yes, Forcefully Stop**\.

------
#### [ AWS CLI ]

**To force stop the instance using the AWS CLI**  
Use the [stop\-instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/stop-instances.html) command and the `--force` option as follows:

```
aws ec2 stop-instances --instance-ids i-0123ab456c789d01e --force
```

------

If, after 10 minutes, the instance has not stopped, post a request for help in the [Amazon EC2 forum](https://forums.aws.amazon.com/forum.jspa?forumID=30)\. To help expedite a resolution, include the instance ID, and describe the steps that you've already taken\. Alternatively, if you have a support plan, create a technical support case in the [Support Center](https://console.aws.amazon.com/support/home#/)\.

## Create a replacement instance<a name="Creating_Replacement_Instance"></a>

To attempt to resolve the problem while you are waiting for assistance from the [Amazon EC2 forum](https://forums.aws.amazon.com/forum.jspa?forumID=30) or the [Support Center](https://console.aws.amazon.com/support/home#/), create a replacement instance\. Create an AMI of the stuck instance, and launch a new instance using the new AMI\. 

------
#### [ New console ]

**To create a replacement instance using the console**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Instances** and select the stuck instance\.

1. Choose **Actions**, **Image and templates**, **Create image**\.

1. On the **Create image** page, do the following:

   1. Enter a name and description for the AMI\.

   1. Choose **No reboot**\.

   1. Choose **Create image**\.

   For more information, see [Create a Linux AMI from an instance](creating-an-ami-ebs.md#how-to-create-ebs-ami)\.

1. Launch a new instance from the AMI and verify that the new instance is working\.

1. Select the stuck instance, and choose **Actions**, **Instance state**, **Terminate instance**\. If the instance also gets stuck terminating, Amazon EC2 automatically forces it to terminate within a few hours\.

------
#### [ Old console ]

**To create a replacement instance using the console**

1. Open the Amazon EC2 console at [https://console\.aws\.amazon\.com/ec2/](https://console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/)\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Instances** and select the stuck instance\.

1. Choose **Actions**, **Image**, **Create Image**\.

1. In the **Create Image** dialog box, fill in the following fields, and then choose **Create Image**:

   1. Specify a name and description for the AMI\.

   1. Choose **No reboot**\.

   For more information, see [Create a Linux AMI from an instance](creating-an-ami-ebs.md#how-to-create-ebs-ami)\.

1. Launch a new instance from the AMI and verify that the new instance is working\.

1. Select the stuck instance, and choose **Actions**, **Instance State**, **Terminate**\. If the instance also gets stuck terminating, Amazon EC2 automatically forces it to terminate within a few hours\.

------
#### [ AWS CLI ]

**To create a replacement instance using the CLI**

1. Create an AMI from the stuck instance using the [create\-image](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/create-image.html) \(AWS CLI\) command and the `--no-reboot` option as follows:\.

   ```
   aws ec2 create-image --instance-id i-0123ab456c789d01e --name "AMI" --description "AMI for replacement instance" --no-reboot
   ```

1. Launch a new instance from the AMI using the [run\-instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/run-instances.html) \(AWS CLI\) command as follows:

   ```
   aws ec2 run-instances --image-id ami-1a2b3c4d --count 1 --instance-type c3.large --key-name MyKeyPair --security-groups MySecurityGroup
   ```

1. Verify that the new instance is working\.

1. Terminate the stuck instance using the [terminate\-instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ec2/terminate-instances.html) \(AWS CLI\) command as follows:

   ```
   aws ec2 terminate-instances --instance-ids i-1234567890abcdef0
   ```

------

If you are unable to create an AMI from the instance as described in the previous procedure, you can set up a replacement instance as follows:

**\(Alternate\) To create a replacement instance using the console**

1. Select the instance and choose **Description**, **Block devices**\. Select each volume and make note of its volume ID\. Be sure to note which volume is the root volume\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Volumes**\. Select each volume for the instance, and choose **Actions**, **Create Snapshot**\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Snapshots**\. Select the snapshot that you just created, and choose **Actions**, **Create Volume**\.

1. Launch an instance with the same operating system as the stuck instance\. Note the volume ID and device name of its root volume\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Instances**, select the instance that you just launched, and choose **Instance state**, **Stop instance**\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Volumes**, select the root volume of the stopped instance, and choose **Actions**, **Detach Volume**\.

1. Select the root volume that you created from the stuck instance, choose **Actions**, **Attach Volume**, and attach it to the new instance as its root volume \(using the device name that you made note of\)\. Attach any additional non\-root volumes to the instance\.

1. In the navigation pane, choose **Instances** and select the replacement instance\. Choose **Instance state**, **Start instance**\. Verify that the instance is working\.

1. Select the stuck instance, choose **Instance state**, **Terminate instance**\. If the instance also gets stuck terminating, Amazon EC2 automatically forces it to terminate within a few hours\.
